http://redistricting.lls.edu



WISCONSIN LEGISLATURE.

Apportionment. Section 3. [As amended Nov. 1910, Nov. 1962 and Nov. 1982] At its first session after each enumeration made by the authority of the United States, the legislature shall apportion and district anew the members of the senate and assembly, ACORDDING TO THE NUMBER OF HABITANTS.

	-jurisdictions are permitted to deviate somewhat from perfect population equality to accommodate traditional districting objectives, among them: preserving the integrity of political subdivisions, maintaining communities of interest, and creating geographic compactness.

	- When the maximum population deviation between the largest and smallest district is less than 10 percent, a state or local legislative map presumptively complies with the one-person, one-vote rule.





ARIZONA 


The independent redistricting commission shall establish congressional and legislative districts. The commencement of the mapping process for both the congressional and legislative districts shall be the creation of districts of equal population in a grid-like pattern across the state. Adjustments to the grid shall then be made as necessary to accommodate the goals as set forth below:

	A. Districts shall comply with the United States Constitution and the United States voting rights act;

	B. Congressional districts shall have equal population to the extent practicable, and state legislative districts shall have equal population to the extent practicable;
	
	C. Districts shall be geographically compact and contiguous to the extent practicable;	

	D. District boundaries shall respect communities of interest to the extent practicable;

	E. To the extent practicable, district lines shall use visible geographic features, city, town and county boundaries, and undivided census tracts;

	F. To the extent practicable, competitive districts should be favored where to do so would create no significant detriment to the other goals.

Party registration and voting history data shall be excluded from the initial phase of the mapping process but may be used to test maps for compliance with the above goals. The places of residence of incumbents or candidates shall not be identified or considered.



MINNESOTA 

At its first session after each enumeration of the inhabitants of this state made by the authority of the United States, the legislature shall have the power to prescribe the bounds of congressional and legislative districts. Senators shall be chosen by single districts of convenient contiguous territory. No representative district shall be divided in the formation of a senate district. The senate districts shall be numbered in a regular series.


